Feature/block6 Test pipeline (#31)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/azure-devops/setup-test-pipeline.asciidoc

:hardbreaks-option:
*Note*: If any test pipeline failed, check the logs for the specific pipeline summary. In more actions you can download complete logs which include additional diagnostic information or you can store application logs in user specifed path.

== Usage

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c <config file path> -n <pipeline name> -l <language or framework> -d <project local path>  -b <target branch> [-w]
```
== Flags

```
-c    [Required] Configuration file for parameter containing all the variables.
-n    [Required] Name that will be set to the quality pipeline."
-d    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\')."
-l               Language or framework of the directory. Only required when generating Test pipelines."
-b               Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR won't create without flag."
-w               Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag."
```
=== Example

==== Quarkus project

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -n quarkus_project_test -l quarkus -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project -c test-pipeline-config.cfg -b master -w

> ``` 
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAUTION: Remember to write the path to the local repository with '/' and not '\' on windows.
```

= Setting up a Test Pipeline on Azure DevOps

In this section we will create a Azure DevOps Test pipeline for testing project test cases.

== *Prerequisites:*

> Before executing the script be sure your local repository is upto date, pull latest changes with `git pull`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before executing the script be sure your local repository is up to date, pull latest changes with `git pull`.
```

Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-w` flag.

The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create new branch, create a test pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion

== Prerequisites
```

= Setting up a Test Pipeline on Azure DevOps

In this section we will create a Azure DevOps Test pipeline for testing project test cases.

== *Prerequisites:*
Before executing the script be sure your local repository is up to date, pull latest changes with `git pull`.

== *Creating Azure DevOps Test Pipeline using provided script*

> The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create a test pipeline based on a YAML template at `templates/test/test-pipeline.yml`. Configuration file `test-pipeline-config.cfg` can be passed as a mandatory parameter containing all the variables. Other required parameters needs to be passed for the script to execute. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create a test pipeline based on a YAML template at `templates/test/test-pipeline.yml`.  The configuration file `test-pipeline-config.cfg` contains the required variables in order to create the test pipeline and should be passed by parameter in the script..
```

> Please follow below instructions to execute the script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: These are not instructions to follow.

> 

Reviewer: Mention the new flag and for what it is used for so that the user is aware of this option.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't add that here, it's already mentioned in usage and flags, and could also be mentioned in the note I'm going to write "HERE"

Author: Yes -a flag added in NOTE.

[loweralpha]
. The script creates a git branch with name `feature/test-pipeline` and `.pipeline` YAML files will be pushed to it.
. Pull Request will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch using -b flag. Ex. to the master branch. 
. The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, PR URL will be shown as output or it will be opened in your web browser if -w flag has been passed.

> :hardbreaks-option:
> *Note*: If any test pipeline failed, check the logs for the specific pipeline summary. In more actions you can download complete logs which include additional diagnostic information or you can store application logs in user specifed path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Variables in the config file should not be modified by the user.

== Usage

```

> ./pipeline_generator.sh -n <pipeline name> -l <language or framework> -d <project local path> -c <config file path> -b <target branch> [-w]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c <config file path> -n <pipeline name> -l <language or framework> -d <project local path>  -b <target branch> [-w]
```

```
=== Usage

```
   ./pipeline_generator.sh -c <config file path> -n <pipeline name> -d <project local path> -l <language or framework> -b <branch> [-w]
```
NOTE: 

> . The config file for the test pipeline is located at `/templates/test/test-config.cfg`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The config file for the test pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/test/test-config.cfg`.
```

> . If any test pipeline failed, check the logs for the specific pipeline summary. In more actions you can download complete logs which include additional diagnostic information or you can store application logs in user specified path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If the test pipeline failed, check the logs for the failed test case(s) summary. In _More actions_ (three dots button) you can download complete logs which include additional diagnostic information or you can store application logs in user specified path.
```

Reviewer 2: The feature to specify a path where the application stores its logs (including but not limited to artifact creation) is not implemented.

> . If the test pipeline failed, check the logs for the failed test case(s) summary. In _More actions_ (three dots button) you can download complete logs which include additional diagnostic information or you can store application logs in user specified path.

Reviewer 2: HERE

==== Quarkus project

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -n quarkus_project_test -l quarkus -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project -c test-pipeline-config.cfg -b master -w
``` 

> NOTE: Pipeline parameters can be modified as needed in `test-pipeline-config.cfg` file such as pipeline name, branch name, yaml files path, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Configuration files should not be modified.

= Setting up a Test Pipeline on Azure DevOps

In this section we will create a Azure DevOps Test pipeline for testing project test cases.

:url-service-cnnct: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/boards/github/connect-to-github?view=azure-devops#connect-azure-devops-services-to-github-enterprise-server

:url-az-CLI: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/?view=azure-cli-latest

:url-pat-token: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page#create-a-pat

:url-devonfw-hangar: https://github.com/devonfw/hangar

== *Prerequisites:*

. Install the {url-az-CLI}[Azure CLI].
. Create a Azure DevOps {url-pat-token}[Personal Access Token (PAT)].
. Create a {url-service-cnnct}[Service Connection] for Github repository in Azure DevOps project.

> . Clone the {url-devonfw-hangar}[devonfw/hangar] repository.

Reviewer: Check if we really need to create a service connection with github, because we do not want to run the tests of a github project, we want to pass test to the code that is stored in the Azure DevOps repository

Reviewer: is it really necessary to have a PAT? we already created it in block 1.

== *Creating Azure DevOps Test Pipeline using provided script*

The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/test_pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create a test pipeline based on a YAML template, follow below instructions to execute script.
[loweralpha]

> . This bash script will execute in Git bash or Linux Machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

. During the execution of this script, a new git branch with name `feature/test-pipeline` will be created and the `.pipeline` YAML files will be pushed to the same branch.

:hardbreaks-option:
*Note*: If any test pipeline failed, check the logs for the specific pipeline summary. In more actions you can download complete logs which include additional diagnostic information or you can store application logs in user specifed path.

== Usage

```
./test_pipeline_generator.sh -n <pipeline-name> -l <language or framework> -d <project local path> -r <repository-path> -b <branch> -t <Pat-token>
```

== Flags

```
-n    [Required] Name of the test pipeline.
-l    [Required] Language or framework of the project.
-d    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
-r    [Required] Repository of the code.
-t    [Required] PAT token to login Azure DevOps.

> -b    [Required] Branch of the repository.

Reviewer: -r flag is not necessary, we do not want to test the code in a github repo, we want to test the code in our Azure DevOps repo.

```
=== Example

==== Quarkus project

```
./test_pipeline_generator.sh -n projectfortesting -l quarkus -d  C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project -r https://github.com/$USERNAME/quarkus-project.git -b master -t Pat-token
``` 

> NOTE:  -l <language> This example is maven based. If you need to choose a different language, you have to modify the commands in `.scripts/${language}-test.sh` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
